I've been exploring and refining productivity tools for quite some time now,
and my efforts seem to have stabilized into a regular regime. I'm still
exploring and refining, but since I have something down that works well, I want
to file it away for future reference. It's not just about apps. There are many
habits which I might have knowingly or unknowingly cultivated which allow me to
be more productive. For example, I actively hide or block or unfollow irrelevant pieces of information
on Facebook or Twitter. One of the best news aggregators that I have used,
Prismatic, is no longer available. Prismatic did such a good job of bringing me
interesting content that I don't feel like trusting anyone else with it.
(Primastic was actually curating material for me based on my Twitter account -
so I think my Twitter feed itself would have to be relevant for Prismatic to
work so well.)

The Case Against Bookmarks
--------------------------

I cannot remember the last time I wanted to find an article really bad and a
simple Google search didn't help me out. In some cases, whenever I'm
researching something more involved than my regular work, it turned out that
I've already bookmarked what I ended up reading. More often than not, a deep
Google search often reveals things that you've already seen a few times,
especially if they are about a subject that's a regular academic interest of
yours. In this context, maintaining bookmarks seems a lot like hoarding to me.
It's almost never happened that I wanted to find something really bad and a
simple Google search didn't help. Why keep bookmarks at all? The same goes for
Twitter likes, Facebook saves and GitHub stars. The KonMari method strongly
advocates throwing things away, and it should be the same with the bookmarks. I
don't want to be a hoarder. I'll still take one last look at them all before I
actually throw them away, but that takes time and therefore I've been putting
it off. Just like I've scheduled a decluttering marathon (that might take up a
whole day), I'm going to have to do the same for my bookmarks and my reading
list. If something is not immediately relevant, off it goes.

The Tools
---------

There's no doubt that Google is you best bet when it comes to being more
organized and more productive. A mindful use of the Calendar, Keep and
Reminders apps will help you get through the day with fairly significant
efficiency. The problem is that Google is ubiquitous and all-pervasive. It
doesn't provide enough context for tasks and it's not very easy to track them
all in one place. Your next to-do might occur as a reminder, or in the Inbox
app, or on your calendar. This is reasonably efficient, except that I'd like to
have one platform where I can see all my agenda (Google Now is quite close to
being that one platform, but its not quite there yet).

The idea is that if so much of your life is being dictated by smartphones, then
you should be able to depend _almost completely_ on your smartphone. To make
this happen, it is worthwhile to customize your devices and accounts well
enough.
